Hamilton Health Sciences  
Juravinski Cancer Centre - Medical Transcription  
699 Concession Street, Hamilton, ON L8V 5C2  
Phone:  (905) 387-9495  
  
PATIENT:  ONE, PATIENT           DOB:  16/08/1975         Sex:  F   
Health Card:  1234567890-AB                                        
Address:  100 CHERRY TREE LANE, HAMILTON,ON L8V 1C3   
Family Physician:  Two, Provider  
Attending Provider: Three, Provider
Signing Provider:  Three, Provider   
Date of Dictation:  01/10/18                  MRN:  H000000001  
Visit Date:  01/10/18                     Account:  HC000001/01            
  
                           ONCOLOGY PROGRESS NOTE  
  
  
 DIAGNOSIS:  
 A 43-year-old woman with right-sided breast cancer, at least locally advanced,  
 biopsy-proven tumor in breast and lymph nodes.  Receptor status ER 87% positive, PR 13%  
 positive and HER-2 negative.  
   
 INVESTIGATIONS:  
 1.  CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis shows no obvious metastatic disease.  There is a  
 8 mm paraaortic lymph node which is nonspecific, but prominent and requires followup.   
 There are also nonspecific pulmonary nodules favored to be benign.  
 2.  MRI of the breast suggests multifocal disease over a span of 9.6 cm, also with a 3 cm  
 matted conglomerate of lymph nodes in the axilla and multiple level 1 and level 2  
 abnormal lymph nodes.  No obvious internal mammary chain involvement.  Again, there is  
 comment on the nonspecific paraaortic lymph node.  
 3.  MRI of the liver shows no obvious metastatic disease to the liver; however, it does  
 comment on a T10 abnormality which is suspicious. Followup bone scan is recommended.  
   
 PROGRESS:  
 There have been no changes regarding local symptoms in the breast or in the axilla.  
 She maintains an ECOG performance status of 1 and her nutritional status is maintained.  
  
 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
 Breast was reexamined today showing no skin changes of concern, suggesting that previous  
 erythema was possibly just post biopsy.  There is a 6 x 6 cm mobile mass.  There is a 3  
 cm palpable axillary lymph node, which is also mobile and high in the central chain.  
   
 ASSESSMENT:  
 I have reviewed the results of the staging scans with Patient One.  There is still some  
 uncertainty around the etiology of the T10 abnormality.  The best case scenario is that  
 she has locally advanced and nonmetastatic breast cancer.  The worst case scenario is  
 that she has oligometastatic disease with a single bony lesion.  Unfortunately, this  
 leaves her with some uncertainty as to prognosis.  Nevertheless, based on the information  
 to date, I think it is reasonable to proceed with chemotherapy for optimal control of the  
 locally advanced primary breast tumor.  

 I have suggested that we proceed with dose-dense AC/T.  I will get a bone scan in the 
 short term and will likely restage with full CT scan after an appropriate course of 
 chemotherapy to decide on next steps in management.  

 Given that she is young, there may still be a role for a mastectomy in the future and 
 she will follow up with Dr. Provider One as appropriate, depending on her response to 
 systemic treatment.  Should we be concerned about oligometastatic disease and she has 
 a debulking mastectomy, there may be a role for radiation or even stereotactic radiation 
 to the T10 lesion.  

 Unfortunately, this leaves her with uncertainty around the next steps, as this is an 
 area of substantial controversy.  There is at least one clinical trial suggesting 
 survival benefit for debulking mastectomy, even in the context of metastatic disease; 
 however, evidence is mixed.    
   
 We have agreed upon first step being chemotherapy.  We have discussed dose-dense AC/T. I 
 have given prescriptions for antiemetic premedications and Neulasta for bone marrow support.  
 I have reviewed toxicities She wishes to proceed on Monday and has signed consent. I will 
 see her back prior to second treatment.  
   
   
 #0000001  
   
Provider Three, MD, FRCPC  
  
                                       
  
THREPRO:MRA:HR  /  01/11/18  /  0001-0001 
  
CC:  HEALTH RECORDS, Two, Provider  
  
<Electronically signed by Provider Three >   
  
  
Report Authenticated Date/Time: 01/11/18 1111  
    