  
PATIENT:   ONE, PATIENT               ID: H000000001        
                           LOC: HO-BAC  
Address:   100 CHERRY TREE LANE, HAMILTON,ON L8V 1C3      
Health Card:   1234567890-AB                                                 DOB: 16/08/1975 
    Dictating Provider:   One, Provider MD, FRCSC  
Attending Provider:   One, Provider
Family Physician:   Two, Provider  
Date of Dictation:   01/10/18
Admission Date:     
Discharge Date:     
Visit Date:   01/10/18      Account:    HC000001/01   
  
  
 CONSULTATION REPORT  
  
  
 DATE OF CONSULTATION:  01/10/2018  
   
 Patient One is a pleasant 43-year-old female who is seen at the breast assessment centre  
 with a newly diagnosed left breast cancer, locally advanced invasive ductal carcinoma  
 with in situ component and positive for metastases to the axillary lymph nodes.  The  
 patient noticed some skin thickening in the left breast, approximately 8 weeks ago.  
 No nipple discharge, no weight loss, no other constitutional signs.  
   
 GYNECOLOGICAL RISK FACTORS:  
 Age of menarche 12, three full-term pregnancies, age of first pregnancy 32.  She did breast  
 feed, birth control for 19 years.  Fertility medications.  No hormone replacement  
 therapy.
   
 FAMILY HISTORY:  
 Maternal grandfather with prostate, a maternal great grandfather with gastric cancer,  
 father was adopted, so that part of the history is uncertain.  
   
 PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  
 Previous C-section and 2 D and Cs.  She is a nonsmoker, does not drink alcohol and has no  
 allergies.  
   
 Clinical examination reveals a healthy-appearing female.  No scleral icterus, no head and  
 neck adenopathy.  There is skin thickening and some peau d'orange in  
 the outer lateral aspect of the right breast.  The palpable mass spans over 6.5 cm.  Please  
 note this is less than the extent of disease seen on mammography and there is a palpable  
 axillary lymph node, which measures about 3 cm.  No lymphedema, no chest wall, fixation.   
 The contralateral left breast and axilla are clinically unremarkable.  Cardiorespiratory  
 examination unremarkable and no hepatosplenomegaly.  
   
 Review of her imaging revealed abnormal pleomorphic microcalcifications spanning over  
 11.2 x 7.5 cm.  The lesion size was 2.6 cm, but underestimates the clinical findings as  
 well as the mammographic finding.  The lymph node measured 4.6 cm with cortical  
 thickening.  Numerous lymph nodes were commented on; only the largest was biopsied.  
   
 The pathology revealed invasive ductal carcinoma, ER/PR positive, HER2/neu negative  
 reviewed at the radiology pathology correlation rounds.  
   
 A detailed discussion was undertaken with Patient and her husband.  We discussed the  
 results of the pathology using pamphlets and diagrams.  She is a candidate for the PET  
 ABC study again, a voluntary study looking at PET CT versus conventional CT scanning and  
 bone scan.  Laboratory investigation of the tumor markers would also be recommended and  
 an expedited medical and radiation oncology referral would be also my recommendation  
 
 Given this was locally advanced disease; neoadjuvant treatment would be the favoured  
 approach again, given the size and the lymph node metastases.  This will be reviewed by  
 the medical oncologist.  I will see her mid treatment.  We have also arranged for an MRI  
 of the breast to further assess the contralateral breast.  It will be unlikely to change  
 management on the right side given again, the extent of disease.  I offered supportive  
 care and social work referral. I will see her post-staging investigations and mid  
 treatment pending the results of those investigations.  
   
   
   
 #0000001 
   
 Provider One MD, MSc, FRCSC  
  
                                       
  
ONEPRO:AGE:HR  /  01/10/18  /  0001-0001 (##)
  
CC:  HEALTH RECORDS, One, Provider; Two, Provider  
  
<Electronically signed by Provider One MD, FRCSC>   
  
  
Report Authenticated Date/Time: 01/10/18 1111
  
This information is directed in confidence solely to the person(s) named above, therefore
this information should be considered strictly confidential.  If you receive this report in
error, please notify us immediately by telephone.    
  