PROGRESS NOTE

Patient Two is a 51-year-old female who has metastatic breast cancer to the bone as well as 
subcutaneous nodules.  There may also be bilateral adrenal involvement and splenic involvement 
as well. Her cancer is triple negative and grade III and patient was seen here in June and 
started on weekly Paclitaxel.  

The patient reports feeling much better with respect to her pain control and overall energy level.
She did meet with Dr. Provider Five from the Pain and Symptom Management Service and her 
medication was increased to Hydromorph Contin 50 mg b.i.d. with 2 mg breakthrough tablets. 
She is currently taking 4-6 breakthrough tables per day but feels that overall the pain has 
been improving.  This may be partially related to the chemotherapy.  Her biggest concern is 
that of right knee pain which has been longstanding for several years due to osteoarthritis.  
Otherwise patient has noticed numbness of her chin localized to an area approximately 2 cm x 3 cm. 
She denies any numbness anywhere else in the body.  There is no history of weakness, vision 
changes or any other neurological deficit such that she has noticed.  

EXAMINATION:
Patient appears to be more comfortable than previous.  Cranial nerve exam reveals numbness in the 
chin area but not in the surrounding facial space associated with any of the cranial nerve dermatomes 
otherwise no cranial nerve abnormalities noted.  Sensation and strength is equal on right and left 
in the upper and lower extremities.  Blood work from today shows stable CBC.  

In summary Patient Two will proceed with her second cycle of weekly Paclitaxel.  I have ordered a CT 
of her head to rule out any brain metastases.  The patient has asked whether she can take nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatories for her right knee osteoarthritis which she was previously taking.  I stated that 
this should be fine. 

I will see the patient back in one months’ time.  


ADDENDUM:  On examination left breast subcutaneous nodule in the 9:00 region measures 
3.2 cm x 3.9 cm.  In the right breast at 6:00 there is a lesion which measures 2.6 x 2.8 cm.  
There remain several subcutaneous nodules in the right axilla.  


AUTHENTICATED AS PER POLICY

DICTATED BY
Provider Two, Clinical Fellow dictating for  
Three, Provider
BSc(Hon) MD,, PhD, FRCP(C)

cc:	FOUR, PROVIDER
	Health Records Copy

RGT:kb 
T:  01-JUL-2014
D:  01-JUL-2014