
June 01, 2014

Dr. Provider One
50 CHARLTON AVE. E/2ND FLOOR, 
ST. JOSEPH’S HOSPITAL
HAMILTON, ON L8N4A6
June 01, 2014

Dear Dr. Provider One:

Thank you for referring Mrs. Patient Two to the Medical Oncology Clinic for consideration of systemic 
treatment for her newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer.

The patient underwent a bilateral reduction mammoplasty on April 1st of this year and pathology revealed 
that in the left breast she had a triple negative Grade III invasive ductal carcinoma which was 1.1 cm in 
size. The right breast had lipomatous breast tissue. The patient was then referred to Surgical Oncology, 
however, she had several lumps which appeared to be subcutaneous nodules including one in the right axilla 
and one in the left breast in the 9 o’clock region.

On May 15th an FNA was done of the left breast mass as well as the right axilla. On May 30th she had bilateral 
core biopsies done of the same two lesions and both came back positive for Grade II invasive ductal carcinoma.  
It was clear at this point that the patient had metastatic breast cancer. On May 30th she had a CT scan which 
showed multiple soft tissue nodules which were subcutaneous over her chest, abdomen, right upper arm and right 
perineum.  There was metastases to the muscle and the left iliacus and right gluteal. There was evidence of 
metastases of vertebral bone. There is no involvement of the liver.  

The patient has a history of back pain and an MRI was done of her lumbar spine. There was no evidence of spinal 
canal stenosis or neuroforaminal narrowing.  There was however degenerative disease throughout the lumbar spine 
with disc bulge at L2-L3, L3-L4, L5-S1.  

Otherwise the patient’s past medical history is significant for hypertension. 

She does not smoke. She does have a history of ovarly lesion which was surgically removed of uncertain etiology.

The patient’s current medications include: 
Valsartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 160/12.5 once daily,
Rabeprazole 20 mg once daily,
Cyclobenzaprine 10 mg once daily 
Patient is also on supplements including Vitamin 1,000 IU once daily, Omega-3 and Vitamin C 500 mg once daily.

Patient has an allergy to asprin.  

FAMILY HISTORY: 
Father who had lung cancer at the age of 65 as well as grandmother had lung cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient is currently living in Hamilton with her husband.  She has one child. She is premenopausal.  
She was working at a day care centre although she has informed her work that she will be taking this year off.  

ON EXAMINATION: 
There are several subcutaneous nodules palpable including the left breast at 9 o’clock adjacent to the nipple 
and the left axilla. There are several in the right axilla.  There are several in the right upper arm. There 
is one lesion on the right vulvar region.  Otherwise respiratory exam is unremarkable. There are no crackles 
or wheezes. Cardiac exam is unremarkable.  

IN SUMMARY: 
Patient Two is a 51-year-old female with a newly diagnosed metastatic breast cancer to the bone as well as 
diffuse subcutaneous nodules. There may be bilateral adrenal involvement and possible splenic involvement as 
well.  Her cancer is triple negative and Grade III.  

I had a discussion with the patient as well as her husband.  I explained that we would be treating her metastatic 
breast cancer in order to minimize her symptoms, improve her quality of life and to extend her life as well.  
I explained that there would likely be several lines of treatment used.  Each line of treatment will be continued 
for as long as possible with limiting factor being either toxicity or progression of disease.  

With respect to local control, I have made a referral to Radiation Oncology specifically for possible role of 
radiation to the left bronchus as well as to the thoracic spine. The right bronchus shows obstruction and 
although patient is not asymptomatic, I am concerned that this may become problematic in the near future. With 
respect to the bone lesion, the patient does have radicular back pain.  

I have requested some blood work including tumour markers as well as a MUGA scan for baseline cardiac function.  
I have referred the patient for pain and symptom management, namely her pain.  

Today I have increased her analgesics to Hydromorph Contin 9 mg p.o. b.i.d.  

It was a pleasure to be involved in the care of this patient.


Yours sincerely,

Provider Two, MD, FRCP (C), 
Clinical Fellow  dictating for:


Three, Provider
BSc(Hon) MD,, PhD, FRCP(C)

cc:	Provider Four 
	Health Records Copy	

	
	
	

RGT:mb
Transcribed:  01-JUN-2014 
D: 01-JUN-2014

